Project XML
===========

This document describes the InterMine project XML file. This file is
located in the mine directory and determines:

-   the Mine\'s data model
-   which data sources are loaded during a build

The project XML file has two sections:

\<sources\>
-----------

The [\<source\>]{.title-ref} elements list and configure the data
sources to be loaded, each one has a [type]{.title-ref} that corresponds
to the name of the bio-source artifact (jar) which includes parsers to
retrieve data and information on how it will be integrated. The
[name]{.title-ref} can be anything and can be the same as
[type]{.title-ref}, using a more specific name allows you to define
specific integration keys. Each source also has a [version]{.title-ref}.
If one is not provided, the default InterMine version will be used.

[\<source\>]{.title-ref} elements can have several properties:
[src.data.dir]{.title-ref}, [src.data.file]{.title-ref} and
[src.data.includes]{.title-ref} are all used to define locations of
files that the source should load. Different parser types accept
different properties, see the two links below for the full list and
example project XML entries.

-   For details on the project XML specific data sources, see the
    individual sources page at
    `/database/data-sources/library/index`{.interpreted-text
    role="doc"}.
-   For details on how to write a project XML for a custom source, see
    `/database/data-sources/custom/index`{.interpreted-text role="doc"}

\<post-processing\>
-------------------

Specific operations can be performed on the Mine once data is loaded,
these are listed here as [\<post-process\>]{.title-ref} elements. For
details on which postprocesses are available, see
`/database/database-building/post-processing/index`{.interpreted-text
role="doc"}.

Versions
--------

Each data source has its own version. See
`/database/data-sources/custom/dataparser-versions`{.interpreted-text
role="doc"} for details on how to version your own data sources and how
to specify which versions to use.

Data model
----------

The data model is generated by iterating though each project listed in
the project XML file and retrieving its additions.xml file. This file is
then merged into the other additions files. There is also an optional
\"Global\" additions file, see
`/database/database-building/model-merging`{.interpreted-text
role="doc"} for details.

Examples
--------

For an example project XML file, see Biotestmine\'s
[project.xml](https://github.com/intermine/biotestmine/blob/master/data/project.xml)
file.

::: {.index}
project XML
:::
