# Building Javadoc

## Package-specific Javadoc

### Dependency note

Note that package-specific Javadoc generation only works if you have successfully built the package first. If you haven't built it before, you're likely to get error messages about missing files.

### Building

To generate Javadoc at a package-specific level, change directory to the webapp directory of a given mine, and run `ant javadoc`. Assuming you're at the root of your intermine directory:

```bash
~/git/flymine $ ./gradlew javadoc
```

Upon successful build, you'll be able to find the Javadoc under the `build/javadoc` folder. For the FlyMine example above, it'd be at `flymine/webapp/build/javadoc`.

## Intermine Javadoc

If you just want to browse the docs, you can see the most recent version at [http://intermine.org/intermine/](http://intermine.org/intermine/).

## Using Travis to auto-deploy Javadoc to GitHub Pages

If you have your InterMine repo set up to automatically run tests using [Travis](https://travis-ci.org), you can deploy the documentation automatically whenever new code is checked into your \[master\]{.title-ref} branch, using [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/) as a host.

### Prerequisites

In order to deploy, there must be an encrypted `$GH_TOKEN` set in `.travis.yml` to authenticate with Github. This is safe because of [the way Travis treats encrypted variables](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables#defining-encrypted-variables-in-travisyml). This token needs to be generated by someone with access to the repo

#### Generating a token

Go to the [Personal access tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens/new) section of Github, and create a now token with `repo` permissions only. If it's a public repo, then `public_repo` permissions will suffice. Name it something memorable, and copy it down somewhere safe when you are shown it, as you're only shown it the once.

#### Encrypting the token

**Important: to ensure you don't inadvertently leak your token, granting someone else write-access to your repo, you must encrypt this token! Do \*not\* paste it into .travis.yml without encrypting it first!** To encrypt you Github token, you're need to install Travis CLI locally if you haven't already, then run

```bash
$ travis encrypt GH_TOKEN=put-your-very-secret-github-token-here
```

This will output the encrypted variable into your console, looking something like:

```yaml
secure: long string of nonsense here
```

Copy the entire output to your `.travis.yml` under the env global section. You should end up with a section like this. It's ok to have more than one secure environment variable.

```bash
env:
  global:
  - secure: that same long string of nonsense
```

See [Travis's documentation on encrypting environment variables](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/encryption-keys/) for more information.

Assuming the repo is already set up to be tested in Travis, this should be all you need to set up automatic deployments

#### Configuring Travis to auto-deploy Javadoc from branches other than master

If you wish to deploy javadoc from a different branch, perhaps a development / test branch, find this line in your `.travis.yml`

```yaml
after_success:
  - test $TRAVIS_BRANCH == "master" && bash config/travis/deploydocs.sh
```

Simply change the value of "master" to the branch you wish to use.

